[Static]
[Dishes clinking]
[Inhales deeply]
[The Mamas and the Papas'
"California Dreamin'" plays]
♪♪
♪ All the leaves are brown♪
♪ And the sky is gray♪
♪ I've been for a walk♪
♪ On a winter's day♪
♪ I'd be safe and warm♪
♪ If I was in LA♪
- ♪ California dreamin'♪
- Anybody out there?
- Anyone at all?
♪ On such a winter's day♪
♪ Stopped into a church♪
♪ I passed along the way♪
♪ Well, I got down on my knees♪
- ♪ Got down on my knees♪
- Okay.
♪ And I pretend to pray♪
- ♪ I pretend to pray♪
- Another one off the board.
♪ You know the preacher likes
the cold♪
♪ Preacher likes the cold♪
- ♪ He knows I'm gonna stay♪
- Good night, John.
- ♪ Knows I'm gonna stay♪
- Night, June.
♪ California dreamin'♪
♪ On such a winter's day♪
♪♪
It's us again.
John Francis Dorie V
and my daughter-in-law,
June Dorie.
The two folks 6 feet under.
Very much alive, though.
Plenty of food.
I don't have a right ascension
or descension,
but we can't be too many clicks
off the Galveston coast.
How about I take a deep breath
before I spin?
Put me
out of my misery.
[Chuckles]
No mercy.
♪♪
- Good night, John.
- Night, June.
♪ All the leaves are brown♪
♪ And the sky is gray♪
♪ I've been for a walk♪
♪ On a winter's day♪
♪ If I didn't tell her♪
Leave this here radio on
during daylight.
♪ I could leave today♪
At least what we think
is daylight.
So, if anybody's out there,
just...
you give us a holler.
♪ California dreamin'♪
♪ On such a winter's day♪
'Cause it's not too late.
It's never too late.
♪♪
Another one
off the board.
- Good night, John.
- Night, June.
[Creaking]
[Thumping]
[Dishes clattering]
[Bottles clinking]
[Clattering]
- June!
- John! Are you okay?
[Electricity buzzing]
Yeah.
What is that?
Do you see anything?
It's another room.
What?
♪♪
[Gate creaks]
John...
- I know.
- What is this place?
Teddy.
This is where he killed
all those women.
♪♪
It's where
it all started.
We... We could never
find it.
It was under our feet
the whole time.
He's gone,
John.
He can't do this to anyone
ever again.
♪♪
So let's just
seal this room up
and pretend
it doesn't exist.
♪♪
It's not too late.
It's never too late.
♪♪
[Electricity crackles]
We should
close it up.
No.
I think I'm gonna leave it open
for a little while.
- John --
- I have questions.
Had 'em
close to 40 years.
The answers
might be in here.
Theodore Maddox
killed 23 women.
At least that's how many
he confessed to.
Yeah, you don't have to
relive it all for me.
No way
I can forget it, June.
The women --
he did the same thing to them
that he was doing
after he escaped prison.
Embalming 'em
so they'd never have
what he called
a new beginning.
Problem is,
we could never find the place
where he was doing
the embalming.
Which is why he was able
to continue as long as he did.
You still stopped him.
Only for a spell.
He still got
what he wanted, June.
John, I don't think
going over all this
is going to
help anyone.
- It might.
- What do you mean?
I didn't
find 'em all.
Find what?
I said we knew he killed
23 women,
but we only found
22 bodies.
His last victim,
Cindy Hawkins,
the one whose purse
I planted,
he finally admitted
he killed her.
It's what cracked
the whole thing open.
But I never found
her body.
I looked that girl's mama
square in the eye,
and I promised her
I'd help her bury her baby,
promised her I'd help give her
the ending she deserved.
But I was never
able to.
You tried.
That's what counts.
I made a promise
I couldn't keep back then.
But maybe I can now.
Maybe something in here
will help me find where she is.
John,
even if you figure it out,
you can't leave here.
[Creaking, rumbling]
We may not
have a choice.
How are
those suits coming?
Still trying
to make them airtight.
If we ever go up there, we can't risk
breathing in any particles.
How long till you think
they'll be done?
It's not just the suits. I mean,
once these are done,
we need
some kind of airlock --
a go-between from outside
to in here
so we don't drag anything
back in.
Why would we
come back?
We don't know what kind of
radiation is up there.
There are some types that suits
might not even protect against.
And if there are?
Well, I'm not an expert, but from
what I've read...
...it'll be
a lot safer then.
Well, uh, you keep
working on the suits.
I'll start
shoring things up,
buy us some time
in case we can't venture out.
I think I saw some two boys
next door.
Mm.
I'm sorry,
June.
I know
I'm not the Dorie
you thought you'd be
spending your days with.
I am happy to be
where I am.
I hope
you feel the same.[Chuckles]
You're talking to the guy who lived on
his own up there for decades.
This... This ain't so bad.
[Sighs]
♪♪
John? Have you seen
the scissors?
♪♪
[Hammer pounding]
That oughta do it.
[Electricity buzzing]
Oh,
just in time.
Lights out?
♪♪
[Sighs]
Yeah.
Little late
for pedaling.
Time to hit
the hay.
Another one
off the board.
Where's the hooch?
It all got smashed,
along with all the preserves
and everything else
on the shelf.
Plenty of Tang left.
That's alright.
Night, John.
Night, June.
[Metal creaking]
[Sighs]
♪♪
[Groans]
[Electricity buzzing]
♪♪
[Lid creaks]
[Paper rustling]
♪♪
Cindy...
I'm sorry
I didn't keep my promise.
[Electricity buzzing]
[Creaking]
June?
[Creaking continues]
June.
[Pounding on door]
Is someone up there?
[Muffled voice]
Woman:
[Echoing] Help me!
♪♪
[Door opens]
[Breathing heavily]
Hello?
Anybody out there?
[Breathing heavily]
This the beginning
you had in mind, Teddy?
♪♪
[Walker growling]
Dakota.
You poor girl.
The only one I couldn't save.
[Growling stops]
[Breathing heavily]
Help...me.
Help me.
What's wrong?
You shouldn't be out here
without protection.
Help me.
[Breathing heavily]
Woman:
Help me.
♪♪
[Gasps]
You promised.
Cindy.[Fabric rips]
[Gunshot]
John,
what's going on?!
You shot her!
Who?!
What are you talking about?!
♪♪
[Breathing heavily]
John?
[Gun clicks]
♪♪
Get inside!
[Door closes]
- Did you lock the hatch?
- Think it'll hold?
You're asking
the wrong man.
- Who were they?
- You saw 'em longer than I did.
- Easy. Don't move.
- Hey, I can get myself out.
- No, John, but I need to check.
- I'm fine.
Yeah, but I am not! Alright?
It's not just about you,
and it is not just about
those contaminants
or whoever the hell
was up there.
I need to make sure
you weren't bit.
- I wasn't.
- John --
- I wasn't!
- But you could've been!
It's just a scratch.
- What were you doing up there?
- Why were you up there all by yourself?
- I heard her. She was calling me.
- Who?
I know
what it's gonna sound like.
Who, John?
The girl
I never found.
I don't understand,
John.
I know what it sounds like,
but she was calling me.
I mean, I didn't know
if she was the one calling me,
but I heard a voice.
So I went up,
and there she was,
plain as day.
Are you sure
you're okay?
you didn't hit your head?
I know
what I saw, dammit.
I put Dakota out of
her torment when I was up there.
What Teddy did
to the state of the state --
it ain't pretty,
June.
- We shoulda stopped him.
- But we didn't.
John, these decisions, going up there,
we need to make them together.
I know. I just...
I won't
do it again.
What are you
looking for?
Ah, thought a drink
might take the edge off.
- I told you --we lost all the whiskey.
- Are you sure?
One thing I know about Teddy --
he liked to have a good time
when he wasn't causing a bad one
for somebody else.
That's why he had
as much as he did down here.
How did you know
how much he had down here?
Can't ration
without knowing.
I know,
but that was my job.
John, have you been drinking
without me knowing?
- Here and there.
- How much?
I didn't keep track.
And before,
when you were up there?
I was alone a lot,
June.
John,
I need you to tell me
exactly how much
you were drinking up there.
Half a bottle a day?
Whatever I could find.
And down here?
A drink
here and there.
It wasn't just
the night caps.
I just...
I thought there was enough
to get us through.
Your hands
are shaking.
When was the last time
you had a drink?
Day before last.
Before
the ceiling collapsed.
[Clattering]
- Think it's those masked folks?
- Doesn't sound like the dead.
[Sighs]
Picked a helluva time
to go cold turkey.
You don't suppose those
masked fellas are friendly.
They don't sound friendly
to me.
John, this is why I didn't
want you on that radio.
Man:
Enough of this.
We know you're listening.
Open that door and let us in.
This doesn't
have to get ugly...
We should
say something.
We know you're in there.
I'm gonna have to
shore that up.
We can't just
ignore them.
John, you're in no position to fight,
and it's only gonna get worse.
You think
I don't know that?
[Sighs]
[Creaking]
- How long will it last?
- DTs? Couple days.
Fever, sweats, you may hear and see
more than you did up there.
[Pounding]
- [Pounding continues]
- [John sighs]
[The Mamas and the Papas'
"California Dreamin'" plays]
♪ Got down on my knees
♪ And I pretend to pray
♪ I pretend to pray
♪ You know the preacher
likes the cold ♪
♪ Preacher likes the cold
♪ He knows I'm gonna stay
♪ Knows I'm gonna stay
♪ California dreamin'
♪ On such a winter's day
♪♪
[Switch clicks,
electricity buzzing]
♪♪
[Woman whimpers]
John,
help me, please.
♪♪
Hurry.
He's going to come back.
You're not really here.
This isn't really now.
John, please...
♪♪
What do I have to do
for you to leave me alone?
♪♪
Keep your promise.
Find me.
♪♪
June: John?
What are you doing
in here?
Couldn't sleep
with the hammering.
Why are you
in here?
It can't be helping.
I need something
to occupy my mind.
I didn't
solve it before.
Maybe I can now.
Are you still
seeing things?
[Clanging]
They're still
at it.
♪♪
- You check the radio lately?
- No.
It'll hold.
Maybe we should leave,
June.
[Clanging continues]
No one was meant
to be down here.
You tore the suit.
And you saw it
up there.
Getting through
that fallout,
that is not going to be
an easy journey,
let alone
getting through them.
And in the condition you're in,
I don't think we'd make it very far,
or if we did, the radiation
would kill us in days.
[Clanging continues]
You know,
a lot of people find it easier
to go through what you're
going through with medication.
There are sedatives
in the first-aid kit.
- Well, would it put me to sleep?
- For a couple days.
- Until you're through the worst of it.
- Are you sure that's smart?
I mean, what if those folks
manage to pry the hatch open?
John, I know it is really hard
to be down here.
It's really hard
to be reminded of what he did.
That's not
what this is.
Then what is this
really about, John?
Why do you want to run out
into a world
that's going to kill you
in 10 different ways?
I know
you think you saw her.
But I don't think she's the one
that's not at peace, John.
I think that's you, and whatever
you are seeing in here,
that's coming from you,
and you are not going to fix it
by leaving.
[Creaking]
♪♪
Right.
There is something else
that might make this easier.
What's that?
Get some sleep.
[Sighs]
That's a tall order.
One of us
should stay awake,
in case
things get hairy.
[Chalk squeaks]
[Lantern clanging]
[John sighs]
[Banging]
[The Mamas and the Papas'
"California Dreamin'"plays]
♪♪
Cindy:
You can't stay here.
♪♪
You're just
in my head.
Cindy: Am I?
Look at
what he's doing to me.
Stop. Stop!
You know
how to do that.
♪♪
Find me.
God damn it!
[Banging continues]
[Wood creaking]
John...
John.
- Don't do that!
- I have to!
You're gonna bring
the whole place down!
I need to get her to stop.
I can do it in there.
You're not
thinking straight!
The answer's in there!
I find it, she'll leave me be.
Then I'll be able
to think straight.
Be able
to deal with them.
♪♪
Aah! What the hell
are you doing?!
June...You...
I'm sorry, but I should have
done that sooner.
You'll just --
[Wood creaking]
John!
♪♪
Voice over radio:
We know that place ain't
gonna hold up much longer.
We know you're listening...
so consider this
your final warning.
Dorie Sr.: June?
June?
[Grunts]
♪♪
June.
Cindy:
She's still breathing.
♪♪
I'm not.
June, wake up.
She tried
to drug you.
It's what Teddy did
to me.
John, please.
♪♪
[Creaking]
I can't
leave her here.
It's not
going to collapse.
They're not
going to get in.
Teddy told me he built it
to withstand a nuclear blast.
He told me that's why
no one would hear me scream.
♪♪
Help me.
Then help her.
♪♪
Where did he
take you from?
I don't know.
I always thought he took you from the
diner parking lot after your shift.
We turned that place over
looking for you.
But if -- if he took you
from somewhere else...
then that's where
he woulda dumped you.
That's where
your body would've been.
Where, John?
June: John...
John?She's awake.
She can
take care of herself.
I can't.
[Groans] John...
John?
I didn't know
you were wearing this.
I-I-I didn't want
to lose it at work.
I only wore it
when I was seeing my boyfriend.
I know.
That's what
he told us.
Were you on your way to see him
when Teddy nabbed you?
Maybe.
Then that's
where he dumped you.
There -- that's where
your boyfriend lived,
across from
that abandoned lot.
I remember going there
to talk to him.
Then that's where I am.
♪♪
[Groans]
June.
John...
I know where she is, June.
I gotta go.
John,
it's not safe out there.
Those people,
they are -- they're back,
and that radiation alone
is enough to kill you.
She sure about that?
If they're still alive,
it's not as dangerous
as she said.
Is she right?
Who? I don't know
what you're talking about, John.
You need to rest.
They're alive.
Did he sound sick
to you?
Is it really as dangerous
as you said?
I-I-I-I don't know.
What do you mean
you don't know?!
Where did all those numbers
on the board come from?!
- Why do we have to wait 294 more days?
- !I can explain, John!
I thought you said
you got it out of that book.
John,
listen to me, okay?
I did
what I had to.
She's lying,
John.
Are they in there
or not?
I was being safe!
Now cut me loose!
Not until
you tell me the truth!
Tell me the truth!
Tell me!
I-I made them up.
You see?
- I told you.
- Why?!
I don't want
to go up there.
You shouldn't,
either.
She lied to you.
It's not about the radiation,
is it?
I know what to expect down here
every day.
I know what
it's supposed to look like.
Up there, I don't know
what anything looks like.
- None of us do.
- That's not what I mean.
I mean without John.
[Clanging]
You don't want to leave,
you don't have to.
John, don't go out there.
John!
[Rumbling]
[Groans] John!
[Fabric rustling]
Where are you going?
To keep the only damn promise
I ever made that I can still keep.
John, no.
No, do not go out there.
I know
where he dumped her, June.
I can
put her to rest.
That was
40 years ago.
John, there is nothing left
up there.
I'mout there, John.
Find me.
♪♪
[Rumbling]
I'll come back
for you.
The hatch'll hold.
Just let me free her. Then I'll free you.
John,
don't go up there.
You almost died
last time.
If those people on the radio
don't kill you, the dead will.
We're already living
6 feet underground.
I'm not sure
I see what the difference is.
♪♪
[Breathing heavily]
Which way?
Where are you when I need you?
[Breathing heavily]
[Clattering]
[Grunts]
[Clanging]
♪♪
No.
Cindy:
They can't get in.
They'll still be trying
when you get back.
John,
what are you doing?
You have to find me.Why are you
confusing me?
- Because you promised.
- You're not real.
So how do you know
they are?
I know she is.
June's real.
I can't leave her.
You do that,
they are gonna come after you.
You won't be able
to keep your promise to me.
- I have to help her.
- You have to help me.
- She's still alive. I can save her.
- You can't.
John, you can't even
save yourself.
- I can.
- John...
John.
John!
♪♪
[Gunshot]
[Gunshots]
♪♪
[Gunfire]
Don't break
your promise.
[Gunshots]
I'm not.
♪♪
You'll never
get them all.
Don't give me
something to prove.
[Gunshots]
♪♪
[Grunts]
[Footsteps]
♪♪
No. No!
[Wind whistling]
♪♪
Why are you doing this?
Because you didn't
stop him.
Because he still
destroyed everything.
Please --
I have to help her.
You can't.
She'll be another dead body
in the ground.
Just like us.
[Indistinct whispering]
You're not real.
♪♪
[Walkers growling]
It's not real.
It's not real!
[Growling continues]
♪♪
Man:
You coming out?
Or are you gonna make me
come in there?
♪♪
[Gun cocks]
[Gunshot]
[Body thuds]
You okay?
Yeah. You?
Yeah.
I gotta tell you --
you're right.
That's some real ugly mustard
up there.
♪♪
John...
I can't believe
it's her.
He musta still had her here
when we were closing in on him.
Musta been too spooked to pose
her where he found her, so...
he buried her
in the wall.
♪♪
You kept your promise.
She's at rest now.
Not yet.
♪♪
[Creaking]
Better get a move on.
I know
you don't wanna go up there.
But I'm afraid you don't have
much choice.
No, I don't.
I'll help you see
which way is up, then.
'Cause I think
I see it again.
♪♪
I'll be
right behind ya.
[Rumbling]
- Move! Go! Move!It's not gonna hold,
- John!
Ohh!
♪♪
June: Hey.
You're awake.
You were out
for days.
The collapse
and the DTs --
I was worried
you weren't going to wake up.
Where are we?
Not underground.
- How...?
- Someone heard your radio messages.
We survived because we had the
masks on when the dirt collapsed.
[Scoffs]
I'll be.
John,
the only reason I am alive
is because
you talked me into leaving.
Well...
I just wanted to help you
see which way was up.
- Well, here, it's...
- [Knock on door]
...pretty clear.
Just not
what we thought it'd be.
[Door opens]
Well,
good morning.
Victor.
June: He wanted to know
as soon as you were up.
- How'd you survive all this?
- Better than you did.
But that's gonna change
now that you're here.
You think we're gonna join you after
what you did to Morgan at the sub?
I, um...
I did
what I did, yes.
But I'm here.
Morgan's out there.
Doesn't make it right.
But it does make staying here
your only choice.
He's right. We can't go out there, not in
the condition you're in.
Not in the condition
everything out there is in.
You have any idea who those
people in the gas masks are?
I've been asking myself
the same question.
Perhaps we can
answer it together,
assuming that your skills
at detection are as...
fantastic as I've heard them
to be.
[Sighs]
To new beginnings.
To whatever's next.
No, thanks.
I'm, uh...
I'm off the sauce
right now.
Mm.
Maybe later.
I assume you have
many questions,
but for now,
you should rest.
The grand tour
is still to come.
[Door closes]
We can't stay here.
I'd rather face
whatever's out there.
[Walkers growling]
Leaving really isn't
an option.
Maybe I shoulda taken him up
on that drink.
[Walkers growling]
Hey!
June?
Mr. Dorie, can you hear me?
It's Morgan.
I heard your message
on the radio.
I need you to tell me
if you're down there.
June!
Strand:
They're not.
Victor?
Where are they?
They're with me.
And they're safe.
Which is more
than you'd be able to say
if you'd
found them first.
You listen to me.
You need
to tell me where they are.
You're such a bore.
How about we do this every night
so you can put me to sleep?
[Chuckles]
I'm done listening to you,
Morgan.
Everyone is. Everyone tried it your way
and look what happened.
Death. Destruction. Face the truth,
Morgan --you failed.
You're a failure.
We are here...
because of
what you did.
I don't see it
that way.
And now it's my turn.
I'm going to do
what you couldn't.
I'm going to rebuild
the world.
I'm going to help everyone
that you let down.
Well,
the ones that I see fit.
All while you watch
from the outside.
I hope you do.
I didn't think you'd give up
so easily.
I'm not finished.
You should rebuild the world,
Victor.
You should help people.
I'm not gonna stop you
from doing that.
But if I hear
that is not what you're doing,
if I hear that you've hurt
anybody that I care about,
I swear to God --
What, Morgan?
What?
♪♪
I will come for you,
Victor.
And I will do what you tried to
do to me on that submarine.
Only I won't miss.
♪♪
Bring it.